2016-11-09	23:50:36	http://news.google.com/	http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/he-not-my-president-donald-trump-inspires-thousands-protest-streets-n681696?google_editors_picks=true	Thousands of protesters swarmed the streets of several major cities Wednesday to voice their opposition to Donald Trump, who less than 24 hours earlier stunned the world to become the 45th person elected president of the United States. \n Protesters in Chicago chanted "Not my president" and "F--- Trump" outside Trump International Hotel & Tower in what seemed like a grand uprising — one in which minority groups that have felt targeted by Trump over the past 18 months hoped to send a direct message to the president-elect. \n "I'm here today because I'm speechless at what happened," Rebecca Gomez, 22, told NBC News. "I'm Mexican, but I was born in the United States. I'm afraid people won't care about that, though. I'm afraid they will be violent." \n In New York, thousands of protesters could be heard chanting and banging drums as they marched past Rockefeller Center up Sixth Avenue, barely even acknowledging the rain. \n "It's horrible that we have to do this," said Trevor Wheeler, 18, of North Dakota, who now lives in New York City. "I identify as a queer person. I will most likely lose my right to get married. ... I will not be able to present myself the way I want to." \n Some chanted "Racist, sexist, anti-gay! Donald Trump must go away!" and "F--- your wall!" \n Besides New York and Chicago, protests took place in many other cities Wednesday: \n A crowd that police estimated at several thousand marched Wednesday night through downtown Seattle chanting "not my president" and carrying signs reading "Fight Racism" and "Impeach Drumpy," \n NBC station KING\n reported.\n Dozens of young people chanting "Hey hey! Ho ho! White supremacy's got to go!" burned a U.S. flag on the campus of American University in Washington, D.C., \n NBC Washington reported\n .\n At Berkeley High School in Berkeley, California, which has significant populations of Hispanics and African-Americans, \n students staged a walkout\n while chanting "Love trumps hate" and "Not our president."\n In the East Liberty neighborhood of Pittsburgh, hundreds of protesters chanting "No Trump" and "Not My President" marched down Bond Boulevard on Wednesday night bearing a banner reading, "We must stand together against fascism," \n NBC station WPXI\n reported.\n Protesters shut down Interstate 5 in both directions in Portland, Ore., the Oregon Transportation Department said. One protester spray-painted "Impeach" on the side of Moda Center, home of the NBA's Portland Trail Blazers, \n NBC station KGW\n reported.\n More than 400 people chanting anti-Trump slogans clogged the streets of downtown Austin, Texas, and marched to the state Capitol, \n NBC station KXAN\n reported.\n Scores of students walked out of classes at historically black Fisk University to march through the streets of Nashville, Tennessee, \n NBC station WSMV\n reported. The group sat down at the intersection of Charlotte Pike and 6th Avenue and shouted, "This is what community looks like."\n Hundreds of sticky notes plastered the walls of New York subway stations Wednesday with messages of support and dissent. \n He also \n said\n he would appoint justices to the Supreme Court who would reverse \n Obergefell v. Hodges\n , the landmark decision that legalized marriage equality across the country. \n Although Trump \n performed better\n than Mitt Romney did in 2012 among black and Hispanic voters, the business mogul's win metastasized longstanding apprehensions among many Latinos, Muslims, African-Americans and members of the LGBTQ community, among others who say they don't know what the future holds for them. \n For example, 68 percent of black voters told NBC News during exit polls that they would feel "scared" if Trump won, compared to 30 percent of white voters. And despite Trump's attempt to peel away LGBTQ voters with targeted appeals in \n speeches\n and even \n campaign merchandise\n , many in the demographic viewed those efforts with suspicion, some activists say. \n "The future of coming out depended upon who we voted in. Today, that future looks darker," said Hannah Simpson, a transgender activist. \n The sentiment resounded throughout the streets of Chicago. \n "I'm a queer woman, and I'm afraid that who I am is under threat," said Erin Uttich, 24. "People have to know that even though the Electoral College chose him, he is not my president." \n Minority voters worry about whom Trump will pick for his Cabinet and various other posts, said Andra Gillespie, a political scientist at Emory University in Atlanta. They also worry about how the Trump administration will tackle issues of voting rights, policing and immigration. \n "The question on the minds of these people is if Trump will govern the way he campaigned," Gillespie said. "He's said a lot, but without a track record, it's unclear what he will actually do." \n A survey of registered Muslim voters by the Council on American Islamic Relations, or CAIR, last month reported that \n 85 percent of respondents\n believed Islamophobia and anti-Muslim sentiment had increased in the past year — a rise the council linked to the divisive presidential campaign. \n Despite the fears, many Trump critics are refusing to back down. In a statement, CAIR vowed that "American Muslims are here to stay." \n Others took to the streets to express their rage. \n "All day long, I've been facilitating between shock, disbelief, grief, anger, horror [and] shame, and I knew I had to come out here, because this is not the vision of the world that I can bear to live in," Edita Birnkrant, 39, said in New York. \n Birnkrant said she believed the country was moving backward. \n "It's just impossible to even imagine how we can go forward in the coming days or weeks knowing what's to come and knowing that the vision of the world and the changes that a President Trump said he wants to make are truly terrifying," Birnkrant said. \n Some groups are banding to use Trump's election as an opportunity to work harder. \n "The next four years are going to be hard for all of us, but this is an unprecedented chance for all of us to fight as one," said Jonathan Lovitz, a senior vice president of the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce. "Think of the possibilities when all minorities stand together." \n "We must build the most robust movements we have ever known to defend our rights and those of our neighbors, protect our planet, end poverty, and shift the world away from war and towards peace," he wrote. \n Safia Samee Ali reported from Chicago. Mohamed Hassan reported from New York. \n Editor's note: A previous version of this article misspelled the name of the Council on American Islamic Relations.\n
2016-11-09	23:50:37	http://news.google.com/	http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2016-election/trump-tower-president-elect-s-residence-new-security-challenge-n681641?google_editors_picks=true	Nestled between the Gucci and Tiffany & Co. flagship stores on bustling Fifth Avenue in New York City is America's newest security challenge — a presidential residence. \n Trump Tower, the primary residence of President-elect Donald Trump, happens to sit on one of the busiest thoroughfares in Manhattan. The city, no stranger to traffic jams, could be in for even more headaches. \n While other presidents have had remote havens and carefully selected homes on quiet streets, Trump Tower is an apartment building with office and commercial space on a shared block with city buses, taxi cabs and private vehicles humming alongside it. Tourists flood the area and its surrounding high-end stores. \n It's hard to imagine the Secret Service roping off a full street as they did at Hillary Clinton's Chappaqua, New York residence, only allowing neighbors to drive near her home. \n On a rainy Wednesday just hours after Trump shocked the nation with an upset win, the New York Police Department began setting up more permanent security measures. NBC News observed a mobile command post being installed; cement barricades began to join the sand-filled trucks put in place for election night security. Metal fencing roped off parts of surrounding blocks, derailing wayward tourists and surprising neighborhood workers looking for lunch. \n Mere feet away, a woman tried to burn a flag — a task derailed by the rain and apparent non-flammable material — while pedestrians scolded her, insisting she should leave the country as cops stood nearby. (Burning a flag is not illegal; starting a fire on Fifth Avenue would be.) \n "We are assisting the Secret Service with security measures for the president-elect," an NYPD spokesman told NBC News. \n While Trump's personal safety is guarded by the Secret Service, vehicle and pedestrian traffic in and around the building — which was mandated in its construction to provide public space areas — will likely be handled by the NYPD's uniformed officers. The NYPD will likely release more information in the near future on what restrictions may be put into place for pedestrian and vehicular traffic near the Trump Tower. \n Nearby, two young women jumped up and down for a gleeful photo in front of the Trump Tower sign. \n "He promises a lot more things — creating jobs. We need a businessman here. You never get any jobs from a poor person," California resident Yoli Bachar, 37, told NBC News after posing for the photo. She rejected the idea that Latino voters like herself opposed Trump for his divisive remarks. "He's going to, you know, support everyone." \n
2016-11-09	23:50:37	http://news.google.com/	http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2016-election/trump-adviser-says-end-beginning-reached-transition-plan-n681786?google_editors_picks=true	After a day of meetings plotting the course following Donald Trump's stunning White House win, Sen. Jeff Sessions, a top adviser, said Wednesday that Trump's team had reached "the end of the beginning" on the president-elect's transition plan. \n "A lot of work has been done so it's the beginning, and ... a really a solid beginning. The first phase of the beginning, maybe it's the end of the beginning," a weary but upbeat Sessions told reporters in the lobby of Trump Tower on the way to Trump Bar. "And now you move forward to a more specific agenda." \n Former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani has been discussed as attorney general; former House Speaker Newt Gingrich has been mentioned as possible secretary of state, and retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn has been raised as a possible defense secretary or national security adviser, Trump campaign advisers \n have previously told NBC News\n . \n Flynn, however, demurred when asked by NBC News in the lobby of Trump Tower about the speculation he could be considered for a cabinet position. \n "I see myself helping Donald Trump and the government and our country succeed. That's where I see myself," he said, and when asked if he had a position in mind, he replied: "Nope." \n Flynn did say Trump's aides already "have names in mind and we're reaching out to people" to fill out his administration, and there are "thousands of people that are signing up" to be a part of their effort. \n "That's the easy part," he said of finding a diverse staff. "The hard part is, you know, moving this machine forward. That's gonna be the hard part." Flynn added: "But I'm not stressed out over it at all." \n One such cabinet prospect may be former U.S. Rep. Jack Kingston of Georgia, who has served as a frequent surrogate and top adviser for Trump, told NBC News he is open to taking a cabinet position in the Trump administration and has reached out to Trump's team. "I have let them know I'm here to help whatever they need from here on out," he said. \n Sessions said he wouldn't "get into any of the details" of the transition planning process, offering only that "the team, I think, has done what transitions traditionally do at this point." \n But by appearances, at least, it was all hands on deck during the marathon day of Trump Tower meetings on Wednesday. \n Over the course of the early evening, a slow parade of Trump family and aides rode down the bronze-plated elevators and departed through the lobby of Trump Tower, near-universally looking sleepy but upbeat, and near-universally refusing to disclose any details of the transition planning to the press. \n A cheery New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, chairman of the transition team, departed early, with Trump daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner — who shared a brief kiss before parting ways — following shortly after. \n A construction worker exchanges a fist pound with a demonstrator, as pro-Trump supporters gather to cheer his election as president, Wednesday Nov. 9, 2016, outside Trump Tower in New York. \n Bebeto Matthews / AP \n Donald Trump Jr. left the building with Trump organization attorney Michael Cohen, while advisers Jason Miller, Stephen Miller and campaign manager Kellyanne Conway departed on their own. \n Finance Chairman Steven Mnuchin left chatting animatedly with Eli Miller, the Trump campaign's COO, in the early evening. \n The trickle of advisers out of Trump Tower was mirrored by a steady trickle of increasingly elaborate flower arrangements into the building, all hauled onto elevators to be delivered as an offering of goodwill — or perhaps congratulations — to an unidentified inhabitant. \n But despite the obvious activity going on upstairs, the marbled lobby of Trump Tower was remarkably tranquil, with one new and jarring addition: Secret Service officers posted up at the entryway, X-raying the packages and purses of the building's visitors. \n It was part of the ramped-up security from the Secret Service and the New York City Police Department to meet the levels of protection required for the president-elect. \n Even with — or perhaps because of — the increased police presence, outside Trump Tower, chaos reigned as hundreds of gawkers came to grab a glimpse, and sometimes pay homage, to the home of President-elect Trump. \n Foot traffic was heavily regulated by a small army of cops around concrete and metal barricades surrounding Trump Tower, which dissuaded most of the public from trying to enter but consolidated the crowds into one narrow passageway across the street. Throngs of tourists ambled through, some stretching for selfies in front of a mash of U.S. and foreign correspondents doing live-shots, while others gaped at a small but visible demonstration in support of Trump at the opposite end of the street \n Trump defeated Hillary Clinton in an upset that defied some polls. Clinton conceded in a phone call to Trump early Wednesday and later\n said in a speech\n that "we owe him an open mind and a chance to lead." \n President Barack Obama Wednesday that while he has differences with Trump he would work with Trump's team on a smooth transition of power, and has invited Trump to the White House to discuss it. \n "We all want what's best for this country," Obama said. \n